-: Welcome back.
As part of this section
we are going to install the AWS load balancer controller
on AWS EKS cluster.
And this is the core controller
which helps us in creating the ingress services
in Kubernetes cluster.
So let's understand more about this in detail.
So from Kubernetes ingress perspective,
earlier AWS used to have AWS ALB ingress controller
and that is renamed
and redesigned now as AWS load balancer controller.
And earlier it used to
create only AWS application load balancer related resources
on AWS from EKS cluster.
So when you deploy ingress manifest
then it used to create
a application load balancer on AWS.
But now as part of this AWS load balancer controller
it can create AWS application load balances
and network load balances.
So for creating the application load balancers
we are going to use the Kubernetes object
named ingress resource.
And for creating the network load balancer
we are going to use the Kubernetes object of type service.
And also we are going to ensure
that it is annotated for NLB.
So we are going to add an annotation
stating the network load balancer
so that it can create the network load balancer for us.
And when coming to the earlier version
which is AWS ALB ingress controller,
so it doesn't support latest ingress API version
which is networking.k8s.ivo/v1.
So from Kubernetes version 1.22 onwards.
So in addition to that,
this ALB ingress controller
will not have any developmental releases planned
and soon it will also get deprecated.
So with that said, we need to use
the latest and greatest available from ingress perspective
on AWS EKS cluster, which is AWS load balancer controller.
And this supports latest and greatest
from ingress perspective.
So this is the ingress API
which the latest load balancer controller supports.
Now the next thing here is
how this load balancer controller,
what are the objects involved
from Kubernetes respect to
for this load balancer controller.
So let's see that in a visual manner.
So if you see here in the EKS cluster,
we have something called kube system namespace.
And you can see in AWS cloud,
other AWS services will be created here
and the core EKS cluster related resources.
And inside that,
whatever it is going to get created as part
of this load balancer controller
are which is involved with that,
we are going to depict them
inside this kube system namespace
because they are going to get created in this namespace.
So to start with, the very important point here
is AWS load balancer controller related
service account in Kubernetes,
and we'll create this service account
and also we'll create a IAM policy
and then IAM role
and this IAM role will be annotated
inside this service account.
So this IAM role ARN will be annotated
inside this load balancer controller service account.
And why we are doing that,
what it is going to provide us in detail
when we are implementing practically,
we'll know more in detail how we are going to do that.
So on a visual manner, so these are the objects involved.
You'll have a IAM policy, you'll have a IAM role
and that IAM role is annotated
with the Kubernetes service account
of type load balancer controller.
So a load balancer controller service account
will have a annotation off IAM role associated with it.
And next thing here is,
so whenever you deploy your load balancer controller,
so it'll create a deployment
which eventually creates the parts
related to this load balancer controller.
And in addition to that
it'll also create a load balancer controller
web hook cluster IP service
and it'll also create
a AWS load balancer TLS related secret.
So these are the things which are involved
from Kubernetes perspective in kube system namespace.
So it will create a service account,
it will create a load balancer controller deployment.
It'll create a load balancer controller
web hook cluster IP service
and it'll also create a AWS load balancer TLS service.
So now this service account,
whatever we have created
is associated with this deployment,
which means it is also associated with the pods
so that, so whenever this load balancer controller
we get the ability means like this load balancer controller
gets the ability to create the application load balancers
of network load balancers from EKS cluster in AWS cloud.
So let's see that.
So if you see here
in every EKS cluster or any Kubernetes cluster,
we know that we'll have the Kubernetes APA server.
So as a Kubernetes administrator,
so what I am going to do is I'm going to
using the kubectl CLI,
I'm going to deploy the ingress k8s manifest.
And this load balancer controller
will watch for the ingress events
on this Kubernetes APA server,
and whenever it finds this ingress k8s manifest is deployed.
So this load balancer controller
will take that manifest
and go ahead and then
create the application load balancer for us.
So from AWS services perspective
you can see that as a application load balancer.
And in Kubernetes you can see that as a ingress resource.
So this is what is going to happen
whenever we deploy a simple ingress service manifest.
Another important thing which we need to know
here is this AWS load balancer controller deployment.
So which means inside this deployment
we have the load balancer controller pods
so those are nothing but workloads
in our EKS cluster and those workloads
are able to create a AWS service
named AWS application load balancer
from EKS cluster itself, right?
So how it happened is
based on the permissions
whatever we have given
for this load balancer controller,
so we have created a IAM policy
which has the permissions to
create application load balancer related resources
or update the resources
or delete the resources
related to application load balancer.
And that IAM policy is associated with this IAM role.
And this IAM role is annotated.
This IAM role ARN is annotated
with the AWS load balancer controller service account.
And this service account
is used by this load balancer controller
deployment related pods.
So due to that from EKS cluster itself
we are able to create
the AWS application load balancer
whenever we have deployed the ingress k8s manifest.
So this completes the introductory part
of AWS load balancer controller
and in our next lecture we are going to
practically install it
and then understand it in a better way.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.